#summary How to contribute to the DotNetOpenId project.

Anyone may contribute to this project, and being an open-source effort we count on volunteers to help enhance the library.  

There are two kinds of contributors: those who have commit access to the source code and those who don't.  Those who can't commit their own patches can submit their patches to those who have commit access for review and committing.  After a short series of good patches, a submitter may be granted commit access by the project coordinators.

== Submit a patch ==
If you'd like to contribute, here are the steps to submit a patch.

  # File an issue with our [http://code.google.com/p/dotnetopenid/issues/list Issues Tracker] to present and discuss the bug you have found or feature you would like to add. 
  # [http://code.google.com/p/dotnetopenid/source/checkout Check out the latest sources] for the version/branch you wish to contribute to.  Use the SVN tool to download the sources rather than just downloading a sources drop from the Google Code web site.
  # Make your changes to those sources.  
  # Make your change as small as possible.  The patch should include only those code changes necessary to fix the bug or add the feature you are contributing.
  # Make sure whitespace is properly maintained.  If the code you are changing uses tabs for indentation, use tabs for your indentation; ditto for spaces.  Curly-brace placement and other formatting rules should follow the surrounding code as well.
  # Be sure you've *svn add*'d any new files you've introduced.  Also make sure you have _not_ added any compiled or temporary files.  
  # Use "svn diff > yourfeature.patch" or similar to generate a diff of your change.  Open the file up in an editor to review and make sure only changes you intended are included.
  # Attach the .patch file to the Issue you filed.