#summary How to get started using Git for source control

*Command-Line Access*

If you plan to make changes either for yourself or to contribute back, use this command to check out the code using Git:

`git clone git://repo.or.cz/dotnetopenid.git`

*Browser Access*

If you only want a source code drop and do not plan on contributing changes back, you may also use your browser to visit:

Url: [http://repo.or.cz/w/dotnetopenid.git]

From here you may download individual files or "snapshots" of anything you like.  If you download a snapshot and you're using Windows, you'll need to know 
[http://pdssbn.astro.umd.edu/nodehtml/tgz_files.html how to extract source from .tar.gz files].  But if you're using Windows and aren't familiar with .tar.gz files, it is probably easier for you to install Git and use the above command-line to get the source code.

=== Details ===
Git is available on [http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/ Windows] and [http://git.or.cz/ Linux].  You can find out more about [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git_%28software%29 Git on Wikipedia].

  * [SwitchingHosts Why Git over SVN?]
  * [http://git.or.cz/course/svn.html Crash Course on Git for SVN users]

[http://code.google.com/p/dotnetopenid/source/checkout Google's SVN server] for this project doesn't have the latest work on this library.  But if you still prefer to use SVN to download an old version, it's still there.

=== Which branch should you use? ===
On the web page for our repository, at the bottom you'll see a section called "heads".  These are our branches.  "master" is where most of the active work goes, while the others are our stabilization branches that eventually turn into released versions.  When a version is released an entry under the "tags" section is added.  

If you're planning on using this library in a production web site, _avoid using master_, as we cannot guarantee its readiness for production web sites. For production use, you should download a tagged release, or at very least go for one of the stabilization branches.

=== Commit access ===
If you have been invited by a project coordinator to receive commit access to our official Git repository, here is what you need to know.
  # Generate an SSH public/private key pair.  You can get directions for generating a public key for yourself from here: [http://github.com/guides/providing-your-ssh-key#windowsxp]
  # [http://repo.or.cz/m/reguser.cgi Register as a user] at our Git host
  # Send us your new repo.or.cz username.
  # Read up on the Contribute page.
  # Definitely install Git and clone the repository.
  # Set up a remote to the git central repository with the push going to this address, where _username_ is replaced by your repo.or.cz username: git+ssh://_username_@repo.or.cz/srv/git/dotnetopenid.git